Is there an identifier (unique in system/session) or dataset?
Is there other data associated with that identifier?
Is there previous data with the same identifier to which new data can be linked?

Is there a set of attributes that can serve as an identifier?
Is there other data sent together with that quasi-identifier?
Is there existing data to link it to?

Is the data from different individuals distinguishable?
Is it possible to query data using distinguishable attributes?

Is there a set of attributes that can serve as an identifier?
Is there other data sent together with that quasi-identifier?
Is there existing data to link it to?

Are there patterns derivable from the data?
Can (new) personal data be inferred from the linked data points?

Does data sent to the system (potentially) contain identity data?

Are requests or records sufficiently unique to differentiate them from those of a speciﬁc individual?

Is there free-form user provided data that is received of processed by the system?
Is data collected that may reveal the identifying information?

Is there a distinctive identifier used during interactions or when referring to an individual’s data?
Can multiple attributes be combined to create a unique reference to an individual or their data?

Is there a distinctive identifier used during interactions or when referring to an individual’s data?
Can multiple attributes be combined to create a unique reference to an individual or their data?

Does the system record data affecting deniability?
Does the data itself impact deniability claims?

Is the data digitally signed?
Which keys are used for signing? Who has access to these keys to verify signatures?

Do (passive) interactions with the system (e.g., receiving a message) have side-effects (e.g., trigger transmissions, logging)?
Is deniability of receipt a desired feature for the system?

Is the data digitally signed?
Which keys are used for signing? Who has access to these keys to verify signatures?

Does stored or transmitted data have associated metadata?
Are there embedded data or hidden patterns in the data or transmissions?
Does this data lead to undesirable deniability issues?

Does the system show status messages (informational, warnings, errors) when retrieving data?
Are the status messages distinct when an item (a file, user, . . .) does not exist compared to not having access rights?

Can the communication be observed?
Can information be inferred from the observed communications?

Do actions in the system have side effects (e.g., saving a file, writing to a log, triggering other transmissions)?
Are these side effects observable?

Does the system show status messages (informational, warnings, errors) when retrieving data?
Are the status messages distinct when an item (a file, user, . . .) does not exist compared to not having access rights?

Is the data more sensitive than strictly necessary?
Is the data more ﬁne-grained than strictly necessary?
Does the data encoding include additional (meta)data?

Is the amount of collected data necessary for the correct functioning of the system?
Is the processing frequency necessary?
Are there more data subjects involved than necessary?

Is the data enrichment/analysis necessary for the system’s functionality?

Is the data stored for longer time than necessary?

Is the data necessary for the recipient?
Are there more parties involved than necessary?
How accessible is the data (public/limited/private)?

Are data subjects infufficiently informed about the processing of personal data, including the purposes and methods of the processing involved?

If a user shares personal data of others, is it clear what, why, and how that data is further processed?

Does the system enable the data subject to configure which personal data is processed and for what purposes?
Can the data subject alter their preferences afterwards?

Do data subjects lack the ability to access the personal data being collected, processed, stored, or disclosed about them?

Do data subjects have the ability to correct or delete their personal data?

Will the system be used in jurisdictions with specific rules for personal data processing (e.g., the EU)?
Does the system, or its processing activities, violate one or more rules in these applicable regulation(s)?

Are there any (industry) specific privacy standards that are applicable to the system?
Does the system adequately implement the principles and controls outlined in these standards?

Is there a data lifecycle management policy defined for the data processed within the system?
Does the policy outline clear principles for each phase of the data lifecycle (creation, storage, sharing and usage, archival, and destruction)?

Is there an established process to manage security risks and identify the required countermeasures?
Does the system incorporate the required countermeasures?
Are the countermeasures aligned with industry standards and best practices?
